hey what's up guys explanation bros here
today i'll explain a war action film
titled
black hawk down spoilers ahead watch out
and take care
black hawk down is a war in action film
based on a non-fiction book of the same
name about the details of the us
military's mission in somalia in october
1993. the movie showcases the mission
commanded by the u.s president to
capture muhammad farah
consisted by u.s elite soldiers army
rangers delta force operators and flight
crew of the 160th soar to run the
helicopters especially the black hawks
the movie starts with the manifestations
of the effectual starvation in somalia
due to the years of war of rival clans
it narrates back how after the civil war
that it broke in somalia followed suit
id breaks into power
aid monopolizes the food shipments by
which she uses hunger as his power to
subdue the population in mogadishu
aideed in the militias loyal to him
declared war against the u.n
peacekeepers
under his watch many dead people are
just lying anywhere and people whom are
suffering of hunger and sickness are
growing in numbers
in effect the u.n authorizes a u.s
military-led mission to capture id and
restore order
they are given three weeks to do so the
action begins with the malicious driving
to the red cross food distribution
center where hundreds of somalian locals
are bumping and fighting on one another
to get a hold of the rice
a militia leader
reigns the unarmed civilians with
bullets shouting that the foods are
properties of muhammad farah deed
leaving amounts of people dead and
wounded
this scene unfolds in front of the u.s
ranged chalk 4 led by lieutenant as they
roam around the area with a super 6'4
helicopter they ask for permission to
intervene however the un's jurisdiction
is that they are powerless to intervene
directly
as part of their mission delta force and
u.s rangers keep eyes on mr ato in the
crowded market in mugadushi a man known
to sell guns to adid's militia following
him the u.s team then ambushes and holds
captive of mr ato shows no fear as
general gerason talks to him
with washington asking for situation
reports every day on their sixth week in
mogadishu the team is now in fragile
situation to get the mission done
in the camp the team and joins new
recruit to the team including 18 year
old privates first class todd blackburn
blackburn is then introduced to staff
sergeant matt eversman to be included in
the chalk 4 rangers while the same
height lieutenant john bales suffered
from seizure attack staff sergeant
eversman is then put in charge as
commander of ranger talk 4.
on sunday october 3 1993 at 5 53 am with
the information from u.s military's
local somali intelligence source in the
streets of halwa road the bakara market
a stronghold of militia
the task force commander have a meeting
with the general garrison where they
plan to kidnap two of the idit's
underlings omar salad his top political
adviser and
his interior minister
the same day they will go to perform the
plan
with the same mission template as before
reminding that the mission time for
extraction will take no longer than 30
minutes where the mission code word is
irene
the commanders then set to unite the
plan with their team back in the camp
sbc grimes is making his coffee
sbc thomas tells him that his wish is
granted grimes will be replacing him
assisting the 60 gunner staff sergeant
eversman gather with his team and
reminds them that they will all going to
be okay staff sergeant eversman checks
on blackburn while he is eating
bubblegum seemingly nervous about the
mission blackburn however says that he
is ready he is trained for it everyone
prepares their gear ammo and guns as a
few hours is left before the operation
begins back in bakara street at 2 29 pm
abdi
the intelligent source is riding the
white car with black cross sign tape on
its roof
u.s military and air team watches over
it as abdi will lead him to the exact
building where the targets are located
he is afraid to park in front of the
exact building as too many militias are
roaming outside of it fearing that they
might shot him
sounding scared
abdi follows garrison's order to park in
front of it or he won't get paid unless
he do so abdi then parked in front of
the building gets out of his car as if
to check if something is broken as abdi
lifts the front of his car and smokes
close up the task force received their
confirmation signal
meanwhile all the irene units are set
out to go to the hostile area of hadid's
militia one by one the soldiers boarding
the humvees the black hawk and little
birds helicopters leave the camp to
start the mission
general garrison comes near to them and
say good luck to the boys as the
soldiers riding the helicopter passes
through the residential area a young boy
that seems to pass time staring at the
desert see their helicopter and takes
out a phone
the young boy rings another phone which
is passed to one of somali's militia
leader moalib militia's getting the
signal that the us military are coming
start to gather with their guns and
equipment
they start to burn tires puffing out the
black smoke in the sky to send the
signal to everyone in the area
a few minutes later the operation begins
the irene unit arrives at the area
civilians begin to scatter finding
places to hide and some still trying to
watch the scene unfold at 3 42 the
little birds touch down to the land
delta force operators as they enter
inside the target building and captures
prisoners and id's advisors on the
corner the chalk rangers holds down to
the ground through ropes to escort with
the ground extraction and take heavy
fire against the roaming militias as
blackburn is set to go down from the
helicopter and rpgs shoot towards the
helicopter they are boarding and
blackburn loses his grip
and falls down to the ground severely
wounded sergeant eversman calls for doc
schmidt to look at blackburn
the delta force gathers all prisoners
and sfc hoot gibson says that they were
ready for extraction the humvees led by
ltc danny mcknight receives the signal
and moves out of the target building
they led the prisoners into the humvees
three humvees is now detached from the
convoy led by staff sergeant shrooker to
bring blackburn and some prisoners back
to the u and mogadishu airport to be
taken care of the militias at the
rooftop of the buildings fires to the
humvees as they leave unseen and
unnoticed a militia hiding at the corner
in the street fires directly at sgt
pilla in his neck leaving him pronounced
dead on the spot sfc gibson then takes
over the 50 gun shortly thereafter three
militia guys with rocket-propelled
grenade shoots and hit blackhawk super
6-1 the blackhawk piloted by chief
warrant officer clifton walcott is down
in their convoy general garrison sends
in sar bird and ground force to move and
secure a new perimeter around the crash
site shock 4 rangers is called to secure
the crash site sergeant eversman takes
sergeant galante and [ __ ] with him and
calls sergeant nelson and t-wombly to
hold their current corner and x-fill
with the humvees later the ground forces
are rerouted to meet at the crash site
secure the perimeter and leave with the
humvees ranger chalks led by captain
steele and other delta forces including
everman's unit proceed to reach the
super six one's crash site while the
chalk rangers are struggling on their
way to the crash site tons of militia
approaches the unit causing more
casualties on captain steel's roof the
other two rangers chalks reaches the
super six one's crash site and set up a
protective perimeter to await evacuation
of the fallen pilots and wounded chiefs
while captains steel and about 40
rangers are stuck in an adjacent area
near the crash site but are immobilized
for they have many soldiers wounded with
them
meanwhile lieutenant colonel mcknight
together with sergeant maddox carrying
the prisoners is having difficulty with
super six force delay of giving
directions
they are facing a lot of casualties and
has fired one of the humvees and private
richard kowalewski loses half of his
body to the shot ltc mcknight attends to
him and struggles to say his final words
to tell his girls he'll be fine because
of the heavy casualty and vulnerability
of the situation ltc mcknight's column
just decided they will return to the
base together with their casualties and
prisoners
all the while sergeant nelson and
t-wombly realizes that they are left by
the humvees they are supposed to exfil
with they then agreed to just follow to
the crash site while on their way firing
shots against the militias nelson have
his hearing defected as t wombly fires
near his ear the two then encounter
sergeant uric and unites to move out of
their way to the crash
super 6 8 drops rescue men to attend the
fallen pilots of super 6 1 crash they
cannot take the wounded chief so air
commands the super 6-4 to inbound into
the crash site
but flying on their way militias with
rpg hit super 6'4 causing it to crash
too sergeant sugart and gordon request
to general garrison to go down to the
crash and set up a perimeter until crowd
support arrive
chief durant is able to survive the
crash and sergeant trigret and gordon
take him in a walled space away from the
open area the site is eventually overrun
by militias and kills two soldiers the
crowd finds durian hits him in the head
and captures him to bring him as
prisoners to id's militia humvee's led
by sergeant strucker arrives the base
soldiers start to attend the wounded
blackburn is still to gain consciousness
the soldiers then prepare for
reinforcement to go back to the site and
reloads all ammos and guns
stroker then proceeds to lead humvees
back to the hostile area with them
having to circle the city to get to the
crash site sfc gibson requests to go to
the super 6-4 crash site on foot
as night falls delta force ditomoso
reunites with chalk rangers evacuated
and holding the perimeter in super six
one's crash site a few minutes later
sergeant nelson t-wombly and urak joins
them as well as sfc gibson the soldiers
then awaits for the rescue humvees to
arrive while holding defensive positions
corporal smith is shot in the leg staff
sergeant eversman in delta iv schmidt
attends to him but sergeant smith later
dies due to blood exhaustion staff
sergeant eversman suffers feeling of
guilt with the casualty of his team
realizing the disastrous situation of
the task 4 rangers in the mission major
general garrison calls upon the 10th
mountain division where malaysian and
pakistani armored units from the u.n
coalition could give reinforcements just
as the night falls aids militia launches
assault on the trapped soldiers at the
super 6-1 crash site the trap soldiers
are able to hold the situation with the
help of the remaining little bird
helicopter's gunships a couple of
minutes later the rescue arrives and
shuts down the remaining militias firing
at the soldiers lieutenant mcknight lead
the removal of the casualties trapped in
the fallen helicopters the firing
continues till the rescue soldiers set
foot to leave the hostile area
they evacuate the wounded and casualties
in the vehicles so few rangers and delta
iv are forced to run on foot to reach
the safe zone at the stadium away from
the crash site allied local residents
are greeting them as they are passed
through at the stadium all survivor
soldiers give their goodbyes to all the
fallen ones sergeant eversman talks to
the body remains of corporal smith and
say that he will talk to smith's parents
when he gets home
the end titles recounts the aftermath of
the mission where 1 000 somalis died and
19 american soldiers lost their lives
president clinton withdrew the delta
force and the rangers from somali two
weeks later thank you so much for
watching if you enjoyed this video
please hit the like button and also
subscribe to my channel for more videos
like this
see you in the next video